#labels basic,steps,panstamp,arduino
= Working with panStamps: first steps =

These are some important steps to follow before you start playing with
panStamps:

1. Install Arduino IDE 1.0 or newer.

2. Download the panstamp library forArduino from the SVN repository:

 svn checkout https://panstamp.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/arduino/libraries/panstamp

and place it under arduino/libraries/ or wherever your libraries are located in your Arduino environment.

3. Download [http://arduino.cc/playground/Code/Timer1 TimerOne] for Arduino. This library is only needed by the
modem application.
http://code.google.com/p/arduino-timerone/downloads/list

4. Download any of [enddevices the sample Arduino sketches] from SVN:

 svn checkout https://panstamp.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/arduino/sketches

Once the sketches downloaded, you have two possibilities:

 4.1. Add the sketches into your "Sketchbook location" (File->Preferebces). Then these applications will appear under the File->Sketchbook menu.

 4.2 Create an "example" subdirectory in arduino/libraries/panstamp/ and add the sketches into that folder. Then you will be able to find them under File->Examples->panstamp

5. Select "Arduino Pro or Pro Mini (3.3V, 8MHz) w/ Atmega328" from
Tools->Boards on the Arduino IDE. Otherwise, you can download [http://code.google.com/p/panstamp/downloads/detail?name=boards.txt&can=2&q= boards.txt] from our [code.google.com/p/panstamp/downloads Download section]. The latter option will add "panStamps" to the list under Tools->Boards.

6. Load one of the sample sketches into your panStamp.

7. panStamps can work in both 868 MHz and 915 MHz ISM bands without any hardware modification. However, the panStamp library always sets the carrier frequency to 868 MHz by default. If you wish to work in the 915 MHz band then you simply have to add a line of code, just after initializing the panStamp in your Arduino sketch:

{{{
void setup()
{
  // Init panStamp
  panstamp.init();

  // Set carrier frequency to 915 MHz
  panstamp.cc1101.setCarrierFreq(CFREQ_915);
}
}}}

8. Place an antenna according to your carrier frequency. A wire stub
works just fine:
http://code.google.com/p/panstamp/wiki/antennalengths

9. panStamps come with the modem application (at 868 MHz) preinstalled. If
you use one of your panStamps as a serial gateway, program your serial
terminal for 38400 bps, 8n1 and no handshake. Then you will be able to monitor the SWAP traffic on your network and also send commands to your wireless motes.

10. Eventually install SWAPdmt on your computer and configure your motes using your custom settings.